let's go all right hi everybody welcome
again to the ipfs core implementations
weekly sync it's the 2nd of September
2019 still I'm Alan pleased to see you
again
I've posted the link to the notes in the
shell
so if you are here please put your name
on the attendees list and please also do
fill out your async weekly update we
won't go through this in the meeting but
if this is for everyone else to read up
on what you've been up to in the past
week and in their own time so yes please
fill out that so people know what you've
been doing and we will begin by running
through the we have a note chicken we
will begin by running through the
initiatives so initiatives what are we
doing what are we doing what have we
been doing well first of all upgrade the
release process I can talk a little to
that because last week I sent a pull
request for updating the release process
for jeaious ipfs is based heavily on the
good work that went into the pull
request for improving the release
process called go IGFs thank you thank
you for that and if you even if you
don't want to review it have a little
rid of it you think I asked Eric to do a
release graphic if you look on the right
hand side of the clip now
yes spent many hours crafting a new one
for Janus ipfs so thanks Eric
um alright Stephen do you have any
updates for every process things go okay
thank you this week alright so that's
cool moving on then upgrading the
testing impress match process I don't
have anything new here I'm hoping that
maybe this week I have time to the
fitness benchmarks
poor request but I don't have anything
else to add
so Steven your gem would you like to
talk to that if you have any news not a
whole lot of these roll your old push
done some more code which I have to look
at and sort of taking the day off today
mostly but I've been experimenting a bit
with adding some instrumentation to to
pull out some more events you get
somewhere observability into like if
that's I confess itself and actually has
some interesting demos for that and roll
some code for writing some stuff on
about cluster might understand so back
to okay cool thank you Jim
so that's all for updating the testing
in first - process for now next up is
garbage collection and pinning last was
I wasn't last week because I wasn't here
last week but it was a week before I
think might have been last week anyway I
match the initial implementation with
garbage collection the Dirk had done for
JSI PFS and that will be available in
the upcoming release of the next release
of Chase ipfs 0:38 and just a note to
people that this is literally just the
first pass implementation it doesn't add
any kind of automatic or periodic
collection for GC so if you want you see
to happen you have to explicitly call
that command for it to even happen so
and do not worry too much about losing
data or when you upgrade and send the
next steps on that really are to convert
it to be streaming like there's a
possibility if you have a really really
really large data sets the that you
might run out of memory whilst gee
seeing which would be which wouldn't be
great and then there's an issue for that
and then like I said there's no
automatic or periodic collection so G
see and yes I profess so that needs to
be added at some point we need an issue
to be created for that so I'll enter to
get that issue created at some point
cool that's garbage collection gossips
Vasco would you like to update us on
that one hello yeah so danger of PR was
finally merged and Alain already
reviewed my PR for integration and I
already addressed his review so we are
kind of final two weeks away of carrying
it merged that's it thank you for
putting out there as well that we were I
think you've done this but in the basis
of kind of renaming that enable pub/sub
experiment flag to enable pub/sub
because of the fact that it's being
pulled out of any experimental config
elsewhere and I think I suggested
leaving that old the old-style one as a
kind of alias for now yes III need to
add the alias thing everything else is
good and then we can remove a future
date and so I guess I just want to cut
to Steven to kind of take note of that
and should I open something on the go
ipfs side of things or is this a bad
idea in general what do you think
sorry go for a second
so there is the gossip sub
implementation is coming to you J sake
FS and we have renamed because it's
basically moved out of experimental in
all of the other config we've renamed
the ipfs daemon flag enable pub sub
experiment to just enable pops up
without the theremin right okay does
JavaScript have message training yet
yes it does yeah so there's only one
additional issue here and that is that
we've been doing some rolls to its of
profiling custom sub and general and it
turns out that message turning is really
really slow but we kind of need for
security so we are looking at to
potentially change in the protocol to
not use message signing to rely on some
other way to like get messages I
certainly rely on my sub sentence if you
have like the ID and like some
arbitrarily chosen over that we use this
to get messages but this is something
it's a sign everything gives that the
kid so you can't like toss people so
there are some questions about whether
or not we have to go with like change
some things now we can always just grab
the protocol so he finds anything he
bets on an issue I in bit like I guess
on this specific topic I wouldn't say we
name any one hopes to expect to observe
I would just enable by default if it
becomes no I don't see any reason why
not
is that mister oh yeah that sounds
interesting and we should probably have
something to disable it though does it
do anything if you're abusing it I think
like I felt like if you don't use it
just doesn't yeah you're right do it
yeah although I guess fine you still
speak the protocol so you still accept
inbound pub/sub I like subscriptions by
it I don't know like I I don't like
having like tons of different flights or
tons of different things when like we
can just like implicitly in a book when
you need it
that's just my edge on that right so I
don't know the details of gossip sup but
does it do anything when you are not
using it per se to pass messages to
others think about it like you will now
receive their site their routes are
gonna open strings to tell you the
things it's sorry yeah sorry yeah your
peers open stream to tell you what
they're subscribing on in the league
Easter's Oakland so yes actually will
take up some memory so having the flag
is a good idea you
unless you want to have something we're
like if you aren't subscribed to
anything you just don't like ideally
like if I'm not scratch anything I would
just like shut down the entire column so
service ended if I subscribe I would
like a reopen it I don't know how much
extra band what that would take like but
no that's a really that's hard to do
no we can't do that because we don't
currently have a good way like pushing
out no PhD PSA okay we now support this
thing please like enable this listener
we're adding this worth little bit of
PeopleSoft way there yet
yeah you took in terms of multi-stream
select and saying that you now support
this particular protocol yeah so what
identify pushes now almost a think it's
sort of thing
but it isn't widely deployed and it has
something some issues around like
ordering up messages this doesn't need a
follow-up meeting sorry I that's that's
um let's talk about it later
and we can come to a conclusion I didn't
think it would be quite some problematic
but let's let's do that because we have
only have so much time for this cool but
I'm glad I raised it at least alright
moving on that subdomain gateway Lydell
are you hate give us a quick up very
quick updates would be made another pass
on the RFC number one and apply it's
just changes mainly added upgrade path
so the short short story is we will add
support for decoding CID v1 like
decoding PRDS represented as CID p12
like first release the TP and we'll wait
either three months or until the next
release happened and then we'll switch
the default so that's like a migration
path for
for studying support for CID v1 and then
switching to CID v1 represented advice
for digital and then we'll have like
representation priority between ipfs and
IP NS namespaces sort of for free after
we implement this in IPS
so ask here is to take a look someone's
interested either in this change or in
RFC process we try to bootstrap with
this for the very first RC cool thank
you later all right next up distributed
signaling and Jacob is not here do you
know anything about this will or shall
we leave it for this week
sure leave it for this week I know he
was working on it last week where I
don't know his problems all right okay
next up then is i pn s so we've got
Aiden and Hugo is no hearing Hugo yeah
yeah hey so the spit work is ongoing we
call scheduled for tomorrow to discuss
some missing pieces and it will be out
this week hopefully also ever requests
regarding - almost ready to merge
hopefully it's running the test for the
last time and now we'll start to
implement the DNS over HTTP for the FS
DNS comment to support penis over DNS
which will make the whole our
implementation much simpler that's it
questions
no we're cool thanks for the update you
go and this stuff is regression to multi
hash keys and block store okay fun times
so Adam is Adam no no it's not okay
someone has got this out of this initial
analysis in code base for parts that
will be affected okay interesting
outcome is in alright yes and so there's
an action item for me and Steven so have
a look at that bull request or issue
sorry and I need to get round to looking
at his Rio migration tool full request
which I believe has been looked at by
Doug before and is almost ready to go so
just needs a final look over
any questions on that quickly
okay package mounted irk isn't here
today so let's get over that one fits
what update Stephen D Doakes made a an
awesome issue with improvements to this
walk yeah yeah yeah and now he has some
because he I test version that he's been
trying out I did include some of these
well a very happy implementation of so
those improvements districts targets
right here by yeah that's the lace-up
tip they're also next week if you sorry
oh okay the next week if you attempt the
ipfs All Hands All Hands like the weekly
weekly I give vertical formally known as
All Hands All Hands is the forehand okay
I didn't know how many hands was the
thing yet Dirk's gonna present his
improve these improvements on the next
meeting so be sure to check that out
because that should be really
interesting or at least I think so and
cool so next up the async of weight
refactor
so I put some notes here so alex is
trying to land adding with an async
iterator and there's a possibility that
that might make Jase IVFs be able to add
things to it faster than go ipfs in
certain situations for so and data types
if you run the test over and over gonna
pick the lowest number it's like
fighting it but that still means that
it's pretty close yeah it's great it's
like amazing within the same order of
magnitude which is nothing now Alex
the next step is we're gonna play with
your team and then you undo all of that
work I'm just gonna move the goalposts a
little further
ah no go ahead faster again he's moving
both goal posts just let us have this
for a little bit all right so aside from
that the ipfs httpclient has now has
browser pops up in the browser which is
super good news but um not really
relevant to async/await
or is it because it actually uses the
fetch API in the browser which is all
kind of promise based so it is a
stepping stone to async await in that
particular library as well so there's
good news and now that that that initial
step has been taken we can sort of roll
that out to the other API is that are
there so that's that's that's cool
there's a blog post about that as well
and oh yeah so I have been working on
this for a while but there is a pull
request to roll that out to add adding
in ipfs HTTP client so that's kind of
cool
any questions on that before we move on
- go do you think we will be able to get
to consensus about returning for our
transports during this week because that
will unblock color of current open PRS
like the older transports and employ X
and enterprise connection
and some more oh yeah it is top of my
to-do next list in the weekly update if
you'd check forever down the document
because it's one of the things that is I
am blocking and I'm just about to not be
here for a while so I'm going to
hopefully this week cool
yes we need to do that because otherwise
it was stopped forever all right cool
any other questions no okay
design review proposals I wasn't here
last week did we have any last week that
were resolved no do we have any this
week that anyone wants to last-minute
add okay awesome okay blockers and ass
or is your RFC number one gonna end up
in a design review crew so at some point
put the next step in that process it's a
I think it was in one of past weeks I
think or was it not no it's a little bit
Mosel so it's on the B team at this
point I also don't think it's that
controversal this is really to discuss
yeah
it's basically the point doesn't have to
be same to you say yes or did this
cool okay
moving on to blockers and asks then I've
got a couple of things here that I put
down this the I talked about the updated
Jess ipfs release process um please read
it and and please read it and give me
your review and I added a couple of
things from the go I like if you'd read
the go one then it's probably really
familiar
you'll be able to skim it really quickly
and there was a couple of things that I
wanted to highlight which is that I've
added is like adding a shipping date
just so that we can give the night
people an idea of when's the thing might
actually arrive we don't have to be
specific but just saying probably this
week in September or would be useful for
July visitors the second thing was
opening up the like the next release
issue as soon as we've done the release
just so that people can start planning
we can work we can give them an idea
when the next one might be available
just yeah just for that kind of that
process to start up quickly rather than
waiting before until we need to start
doing the steps basically and then there
was a question over like how jess ipfs
wants to follow semver going forwards
what we're doing what we do now and a
proposal for what we might want to do
going forward so have a really quick
read it should take long
there's only four files to look at my
second ask is I'm going to be going away
for a little bit for like a month and
the next year's IVFs release needs to
need to be released according to that
updated shares I'd be a first release
process document and so I've linked to
an issue where I've kind of described
the what kind of needs to happen but
importantly we kind of need someone to
spearhead it and and take it to the
finish line and and it would be cool
maybe I don't know but maybe having like
a duo of people releasing it might be a
good idea please have a look at the
issue and let me know if you can think
of anything I'm not covered there that
you would like to know if you were doing
it
would be really useful but yeah check it
check out the issue and that's me for
asks Ledo hasn't asked my ass kiss
Chester check RFC zero zero zero one
alright coat that Stephen hasn't asked I
would miss I mean like making PRS
assigned a people Leslie maintainer so
various proposed if you aren't willing
to do this please or think you might be
willing please meet the mediators
document and make sure that you guys
want to take on because it's non-trivial
amount of work but I think once they are
subdued this is really important so that
we spread the load around it also like
other people like understand the
different repose yeah it also mixtures
that things get through faster
the main thing really all right
Hugo has a last minute yeah we have been
having some issues with the DNS tests
which in ever also specifically because
we call the DNS endpoint on the Gateway
and is we are getting some weird Jason I
was wondering if anyone knows what's up
or if this is already been taught about
anywhere else that is the first I've
heard of it but I'm happy to look into
it thank you
can you is there an issue can you sign
can you write an issue in a sign it's me
I can write anybody you are ever f the
tests are failing but I'll make an issue
and I need you
I saw those tests were failing but I
didn't get a chance to the country yet
today
okay I'm sorry currently I so yeah by
default I believe God casts which
achiever cursor for solving there was a
sheep at this point yeah that may be
related so just deal with that something
related I like we talked a lot about
this but I am Not sure it might be
related is that with added tests for DNS
resolver for that ETH in Jessica's and
to the Interop and they were migrating
to permanent infrastructure and they
shut down the old one so for a half a
day
our CI went down to two dots but I don't
think it's I just looked at the test and
it's not the same thing so it's not
actually look at this it's getting I
Jason back so this is bad Jason okay
okay yeah that's the so this could be
that the gateways have switched to using
a new version of go ipfs just now and
not just now over there bin when did I
see this failing maybe you fries fried
Saturday maybe late Friday or Friday in
the u.s. maybe is that ring any bells
okay alright so anyway questions is
there any questions we're running out of
time really rapidly No
okay parking lot okay next steps for I
don't asks that what are the next steps
for the HD in choice I profess there is
a pull request adding the DHT there is a
list I will link to that pull request
and put it in in this document but there
is a list of things that need to happen
for us to merge it and what I'm thinking
is likely right now is we should just
add it in
DHT client mode and
by default and and leave it at that we
don't have the ability to know when
we're behind than that so I'm hesitant
to add it as not client mode but there
are other things that are in the way
before that can happen I could list it
as one of the things potentially for the
0:38 release and that's one of the
things that I would like input on from
people if they're interested there is an
0:38 release issue a link to it
somewhere in this document already just
go to the issues thing on jesso because
it's pinned at the top if you really
want it then maybe +1 it cool all right
and then write the weekly updates and
that's it so we are done we are finished
and it is 6 o'clock so you're right on
time thank you everyone
brilliant work any last-minute things
you want to voiced today alright cool
thank you very much everyone for your
updates and and interactions I've
enjoyed seeing your faces and I look
forward to seeing them again soon happy
Monday and have a lovely week I'm PMSing
wherever you are